Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course in Tableau. In today's tutorial
we're going to have a quick refresher of
the concepts of aggregation and
granularity because we're going to be
using them quite a lot in level of
detailed calculations, we're going to
be using those terms, going to be talking
about aggregation, we're going to talk
about granularity and so it's just a
good idea to quickly refresh our
knowledge on those topics.
Alright so let's get started, here we've
got our chart that we've already
prepared and what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to take profit and drag it
into label and so here you can see that
the profits for the cities have appeared
and we know that our data set isn't
actually at the city level. Our data set
is if I look at out, view data, a data set is
not even an order level it's actually at
item level so here every single row
doesn't represent a city even though on
our chart we see cities every single row
represents an item of an order and then
so in a city you might have multiple
orders and in each order you might have
multiple items and but at the same time
Tableau is showing us the profit per
city so for instance here's the profit
for Rock Springs it was minus 5,602
and bear in mind this is for all the
years in our data set. We've got several
years, so we've got order date it's got
multiple years here so that's another
level of information that is present in
our data set so Tableau is adding up all
the items so the profit for all the
items for all of the orders for all the
years for the city and is showing us
this total over here and now if I take,
remove city from here and just leave it
at state now Tableau is showing
something else, it's showing us the total
profit for all the items or all of the
orders across all the cities across all
of the years in each individual state, so
it's adding it up at state level. So as
you can see I can take out state as well
now it's showing us the total profit for
just the whole the US for across all the
times
across all of the items in all the
orders and all the cities in all of the
states so that's how it works and it's
so here as you can see this
visualization right now is the least
granular, so the level of granularity is
very low but level of aggregation is
very high, aggregation and granularity
they are the opposite of each other. So
if I increase, if I add state now,
granularity has increased, aggregation
has decreased, if I add city granularity
has increased even further, aggregation has
decreased once again and that is the
concept of aggregation and granularity and
how does Tableau know at which level to
aggregate the information. How does it know
that we want to see the profits for the
city or in this case?
Well Tableau what Tableau does is it
looks at the dimensions that you have
here. So the concept is that measures is
what gets aggregated and dimensions
specify the level at which the
aggregation happens, so the level of
aggregation or you can also talk
about as a level of granularity. So that
is how Tableau understand these things
and the way you can add to the
visualization is you can use either the
columns, the rows, the detail, the label,
the size and the color but not the
tooltip in order to change the
aggregation granularity so if you take a
dimension and you drag it into one of
those items that I mentioned then what
will happen is that will change the
aggregation granularity. So that was a
very quick refresher aggregation
granularity and that should be
sufficient.
I look forward to you on the next trial
and until then, happy analyzing.